The Yalie Wellness Journal Implementation/Design Details

To implement our digital journal, we used Python, CSS, HTML, and JavaScript. We defined all our routes and functions in the app.py file, indicating what the program should do to perform different kinds of actions. In our "static" folder, we stored design-related static elements like logos and images, including our styles.css file where we specified the formats of different pages/elements of our website. In our "templates" folder, we stored all the .html pages that we used, in other words, the different pages of the website that can be accessed through the Navigation Bar. Our helpers.py function is used to access the helper functions from Finance, which were relevant and useful for our website as well. Our journal.db file includes the six SQL tables that we used in order to store and process data that is important for our functions. These tables are "users", "entries", "quotes", "fall", "spring." More detail regarding how and why they were used will be given in the following paragraphs.

* Layout.html: This file contains the skeleton of our website, namely our background image (and style) and navigation bar. We used a black color gradient above our background image to make the contents of our pages more readable and aesthetic. To avoid repetition, we imported the contents of layout.html to each of our other html files.

* Apology: We used an image of Handsome Dan called dan.jpg and the apology.html pages to return our apologies when something goes wrong. In apology.html, we used jinja to return the appropriate error message for every single reason for error possible.

* Registration, Log In, Change Password: We used an SQL table called "users" to manage all matters related to logging in and registering. Once a user types the requierd information for registration, a new row is automatically inserted to the "users" table thanks to the SQL command in app.py. After the user creates their account and types their log in information, our program scans the users table to make sure the log in informations match, and if so, directs them to the home page.

* Home Page: We used a lot of Jinja to make the home page customized for users. To appropriately greet the user, we use the datetime and time modules in Python and determine what time of the day it currently is (morning, afternoon, or night). We generate the greeting using an if function in app.py, which checks precisely this. Then, we use the information in our "users" SQL table to SELECT the first name of the user and include that in our greeting. We also use the datetime and time modules to display the current time at the center of the page. Lastly, we generate a random quote from a 200-quote database (source: https://github.com/ShivaliGoel/Quotes-500K/blob/master/README.md) that we imported in our "quotes" SQL table.

* New Entry, Past Entries: We used SQL tables called "entries" to store entries entered by the user. In new_entry.html, we constructed a form consisting of different types of input fields (like date and textarea) based on the nature of the type of information requested. We stored all these information in SQL tables, under columns of appropriate data types (like numeric, integer, and text). To display past entries, we constructed a table in the past_entries.html file. We used jinja to construct a for loop that displays user input on different rows.

* Yale Calendar: We pulled the dates from Yale's academic calendar (http://catalog.yale.edu/ycps/calendar/) into a CSV file, and then imported the CSV file to the "fall" and "spring" SQL tables in our journal.db database. We then used this database to construct a table in the yale_calendar.html page. We then used a JavaScript function (at the top of the yale_calendar.html page) to construct a search bar, which filters table rows based on the keywords searched.

* Calendar: We imported this calendar that makes use of JavaScript, HTML, and CSS via the source code: https://github.com/opensource-coding/Javascript-Events-Calendar . This was helpful as we had very limited experience with JavaScript. One of the most major problems we faced was with our calendar.html file in VSCode not recognizing the Javascript file. We eventually overcame this problem by trying different pathways and locating the file in other folders. During the process we learned a lot about how classes work and JavaScript can function to dynamically create elements. In calendar.html, rather than hardcoding dates and months, we relied on functions defined in JavaScript as well as storing event information in localStorage. We also learned a lot about debugging since JavaScript is a language that is very sensitive to syntax or technical errors, and would often do not display any element at all, leaving us confused about what was the problem. Here, making use of Chrome's inspect function and console.log() helped us find the root of such probems. Another major problem that we faced and weren't able to fully solve was displaying the navigation bar in the calendar page. Since we have two style sheets, one for the calendar and one for the rest of the website, we ran into formatting problems while trying to incorporate the navigation page into the calendar.